---
id: 383
title: '43'
date: '2009-11-03T18:13:11-05:00'
author: 'Rob Bazinet'
layout: post
guid: 'http://localhost/~rbazinet/?p=383'
permalink: /general/43/
dsq_thread_id:
    - '95925428'
categories:
    - General
---

Today is my 43rd birthday. I have since my late 30?s, really disliked thinking about being another year older, I mean, it?s really only another day older than I was yesterday but acknowledging the fact that an additional year has past put me in a somber mood. Maybe it is the realization of middle-age that makes one think about their place.

In prior years I spent the day reflecting on the past 365 days and wondered if I had made the best use of my time and taken advantage of the right opportunities.

### Reflection

This birthday is no different in as much as reflecting on the past year but taking a different view of it. I realized that I am damn lucky! I have a great family, I work from home and do the work I choose to do. I get up everyday and don?t take the dreaded commute to the cubical farm. I get to see my family every morning a take my daughter to school. I know many people wished they could have this life because I dreamed of it myself when I was commuting and wasn?t home when I wanted to be. It is easy to miss too much. I have reached aspect of my life that I can stand and be proud of.

I am truly happy and at a peaceful point even with the state of our economy and the climbing costs of everything. Keeping our head above water and moving forward, certainly means success.

### Inspiration

I read a lot of blogs, some I read every detail and some I don?t. I find myself looking for something different now than I used to, so the sources of information have changed.

I find those people that are taking the same path I am taking or are where I want to be are the ones I find so much value in. My goals are not to be rich or famous but to provide for my family, feel good about the work I do and help others find what inspires them. It?s not always easy to be able to explain things as one might, therefore some source of inspiration.

- [Steven Bristol and Allan Branch](http://b.lesseverything.com/) with great posts like [Co-founder of an Unknown Software Company](http://b.lesseverything.com/2009/11/2/co-founder-of-an-unknown-software-company) by Allan.
- Derek Sivers ? [If you think you haven?t found your passion?](http://sivers.org/passion)
- So many others
 
It is so true, passion and inspiration mean so much. I know too many people who have a 9 to 5 ?job? they never really enjoy. I think something we spend so much time doing, we should be happy doing it. It doesn?t have to be working for yourself, it can mean anything as long as it adds value to your life.

### Projection

It seems part of my career always seemed to be chasing something that I knew existed but I wasn?t exactly sure I would know when I got to it. I can honestly say that I know what that goal is and I have a fairly good idea how to get there.

I won?t go as far as lay out the path to the next goal but I do have it laid out in my mind. I will blog about it here when I feel comfortable talking about it, but I will say that things will change for the better. Stay tuned, good things to come.

<div class="wlWriterEditableSmartContent" id="scid:0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:39471906-93a2-4ece-b8bb-d7afdf6bbbaa" style="padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; display: inline; float: none; padding-top: 0px">Technorati Tags: [Inspiration](http://technorati.com/tags/Inspiration),[Passion](http://technorati.com/tags/Passion)</div>